An introduction to the book of Deuteronomy.
Deuteronomy was written by Moses
on the plains of Moab in 1473 B.C.E.
just before the Israelites
entered the Promised Land.
The name Deuteronomy means “Second Law,”
or “Repetition of the Law.”
However, the book
is also an explanation of the Law.
Deuteronomy urges the Israelites
to love and obey Jehovah
in the land he is about to give them.
The book consists primarily
of four discourses,
a song, and a blessing by Moses.
In the first discourse,
found in chapters 1-4,
Moses reviews
Israel’s history after the Exodus
and urges the people to remember
what Jehovah has done for them.
For example, Moses reminds them
that Jehovah eliminated
the faithless and cowardly generation
that, 40 years earlier,
feared the inhabitants of Canaan.
In the second discourse,
contained in chapters 5-26,
Moses exhorts the people
to obey God’s commandments,
not out of mere duty,
but because they love him
with all their heart, soul, and strength.
Did you know?
In the ancient world,
foreigners often had no legal rights
and widows and fatherless children
faced many difficulties.
In Israel, however, Jehovah’s Law
applied to and benefited all,
including foreigners, widows,
and fatherless children.
Jehovah loves these individuals,
and his people should love them too.
In chapter 7, Moses tells the Israelites
that Jehovah will clear away the nations
in the Promised Land,
which are more populous
and mightier than Israel.
In chapter 8,
Moses describes Israel’s inheritance
as “a good land” with streams of water,
wheat, barley, grapevines, fig trees,
pomegranates, olive oil, and honey.
But it is a land filled with false worship.
So in chapter 12, the Israelites
are commanded
to pull down the altars to false gods,
to shatter the sacred pillars,
to burn the sacred poles,
and to cut down the graven images.
In chapter 16, Moses reminds God’s people
to celebrate the Passover
as well as the three great festivals:
the Festival of Unleavened Bread,
the Festival of Weeks,
and the Festival of Booths.
Chapter 18 contains a prophecy
about a future great prophet.
Moses says:
“Jehovah your God will raise up for you
“from among your brothers a prophet like me.
You must listen to him.”
The third discourse, in chapters 27 and 28,
sets out the cursings for disobedience
and the blessings for obedience.
After the nation crosses the Jordan River,
the cursings are to be recited on Mount Ebal,
where half of the tribes are to stand.
The other tribes
are to stand on Mount Gerizim
and bless the people.
Chapters 29 and 30
contain Moses’ fourth discourse,
in which he makes a covenant with the people,
telling them to choose life
by obeying Jehovah.
In chapter 31,
Jehovah commissions Joshua
as Moses’ successor.
Joshua should “be courageous and strong”
as he leads the nation
into its God-given land.
Chapter 32 records the song of Moses,
which powerfully extols God’s faithfulness
in contrast
with the Israelites’ unfaithfulness.
In chapter 33,
we read “the blessing that Moses . . .
pronounced on the Israelites
before his death.”
In the final chapter,
Moses ascends Mount Nebo,
where he is shown the Promised Land.
Jehovah says:
“I have let you see it with your own eyes,
but you will not cross over there.”
Moses then dies at 120 years of age,
and Jehovah buries him
in a secret location in Moab.
As you read the book of Deuteronomy,
see how Jehovah blesses those who love him,
note how he withholds his blessing
from those who disobey him,
and discern how the principles
behind God’s Law
are reflected in the teachings of Jesus
—the Prophet like Moses,
who is also the King of God’s Kingdom.